# Study on Methods for the Multi-Depot Dial-a-Ride Problem

The aim is to develop different methods to solve the MD-DARP, such as mathematical models, heuristics, and metaheuristics. It also intends to explore how the MD-DARP can be extended to a dynamic version.

- Author: GUILLEM CABRÉ FARRÉ
- Director: PEDRO JESÚS COPADO MÉNDEZ
- Codirector: CAROLINE KÖNIG

## Usage

```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
cmake --build . -j
./cpp/core/darpmd_runner --help
```

## Instances

During the development of this project, we have used a variety of instances to test and evaluate the performance of our solvers. These instances include both synthetic and real-world datasets.

The syntetic instances were created mainly by J.-F. Cordeau, and they are commonly used in the literature to evaluate the performance of DARP solvers. These instances are available in the `instances/cordeau-instances` directory of this project and `instances/cordeau-tabu-instances`. All these instances were mainly created for the DARP, but they can be easily adapted to the MD-DARP by simply assigning the same depot to all the requests.

To install and convert these DARP instances (A-series(24) + B-series(24) + R-series(20) = 68 instances), run the following command from the root of the project:

```bash
cd build
cmake ..
cmake --build . --target install_cordeau_instances
```

In addition we have also generated our own instances based on real-world data, which are available in the `instances/our-mddarp-instances` directory. These instances are based on real-world data and are designed to reflect the characteristics and challenges of real-world MD-DARP problems.

## Wrappers and Interfaces

This project although the solvers being implemented in C++, we have also developed wrappers and interfaces in Python to facilitate the use of the solvers and to allow for easier integration with other tools and libraries. The Python interface provides a user-friendly way to interact with the solvers, enabling users to easily set up and solve MD-DARP instances without needing to directly interact with the C++ code. This Python applications are the following:

- `python/darp-gen`: A Python application to generate MD-DARP instances based on real-world data.
- `python/darpmd-res-viewer`: This application allows users to visualize the results of the MD-DARP solvers. This application gets a result file generated by the solvers and creates a visual representation of the solution, making it easier to analyze and understand the results. (not only it shows the `python/darp-gen` solutions, it can also generate a visualization of the Cordeau DARP instance solutions).
- `python/instance-converter`: This application allows users to convert standad Cordeau and Laporte DARP instances into the format used by our solvers.
- `python/pyomo`: Contains the prototype of the mathematical model implemented in Pyomo.

Each applicattion has its own README file with instructions on how to use it, which can be found in the respective directories.
